# Milestone 4: Forward Engineering and Sample Data (10 points)

***Note that all your work done in this section must be uploaded in the file's folder found in this directory***

## Forward Engineering (5 points)

The forwarding engineering process is the one that translates your database model (EER) into the database schema that is used to create the physical database, tables and attributes in your database system. Note that this process must be done in MYSQLWorkBench as seen in class. Backward engineering is not allowed in this section

Before starting the forwarding engineering process of your database model, make sure to provide a meaningful name for your database schema. By default, MSQLWorkBench assign 'mydb'. Replace it with the name of your database + "DB" (i.e. LibraryManagementDB)

Open your eer.mwb with Workbench, and proceed with the forward engineering process of your database model as learned in class. Then, save the script file as databasemodel.sql. This file must be the result of your forwarded engineering databasemodel. Script with different (or modified) SQL code that is different from the SQL code generated by MySQKWorkbench won't be considered for grading ***No Exceptions***

Execute the script databasemodel.sql to create your database and tables in your system. This can be done in many ways, but the most common ones are:

    (1) Connect to your MySQL intance in Workbench, import the databasemodel.sql script, and execute it. Or

    (2) Connect to your MySQL intance in Workbench, open a SQL script tab windows, and copy and paste the content of databasemodel.sql there. Then, click on run. 

Once your database and tables are created in your mysql localhost instance, then upload the databasemodel.sql, and eer.mwb files in the 'files' folder located in this directory of your repository

***Note that at grading time your databasemodel.sql must run without errors to get credit for this section***

## Populating Database (Sample Data) (5 points)

In order to test your database system, it needs to be populated first with sample data that represents the scope and domain
of the business requirements that will be implemented by the software product that is using your database system. 

1. Create a file inserts.sql file. 

2. Add some comments on the top of the file to explain the context of this file

3. The first SQL code this file must have is the following: 

    ```mysql
       USE LibrarySystemDB; -- Replace LibrarySystemDB with the name of your database system
    ```
4. Insert some sample data in all your tables. ***Each table in your database must have at least three inserts, and all 
your inserts must use JOINS as learned during class lectures***
    
5. Run inserts.sql in MySQLWorkbench or directly in your MySQL instance. ***Note that your database and tables must be 
   already in your system before running this script. Otherwise, it will fail***

7. Upload the inserts.sql file in 'files' folder located in this directory in your repository

***Note: inserts.sql must run without errors in order to get credit for this section***


# Submission Guidelines

The following are the submission guidelines for this milestone.
   
***Note: no pdf file needed in this milestone***

   * In the "files" folder of this directory upload the following scripts:

     * databasemodel.sql
     * inserts.sql
     * eer.mwb (from milestone 3)

   * On Canvas (using the submission link for this assignment): A link (url) pointing to Milestone 4 folder in your repository

***Submission guidelines are designed to ensure a standardized and equitable assessment for all participants. 
It is paramount that each submission aligns meticulously with these guidelines. Failure to do so may regrettably result in a considerable deduction of points.*** 

# Grading Rubrics 

The following are the grading rubrics the TA and the instructor of this course will use to grade the work 
submitted by students.

    
   * All the sections in this milestone must be completed. Incomplete work or assignments not following the submission 
     guidelines in detail will get a non-passing grade in this milestone. ***No exceptions***

   * Work flagged by our AI detection tools will receive a temporary grade of zero points until the issue is resolved. We
     will apply the university policies regarding academic dishonestly when we get compelling evidence that the work
     submitted has been created by AI tools such as ChatGPT. 
   
   * Once a grade is assigned to a milestone, it won't be changed under any circumstance unless the TA or the instructor 
     made a mistake during the grading process.  

   * -10 points if no work is submitted or the assignment is not submitted by the assignment's deadline stated on Canvas
   
   * The databasemodel.sql and inserts.sql must run without errors. If we can't run your files, then your work will be 
     considered incomplete work and will be graded as such. 

   * Forward Engineering:

     * If your databasemodel.sql throws errors when executed by the grader, then (-10 points) since without a databasemodel we can't create your
       database in our system, so the assignment will be considered incomplete independently of the amount of work you have done in 
       this milestone. ***No exceptions***. Test everything properly before submission. 

     * We'll do our own forward engineering process from your eer.mwb, and from this process, we'll create a new
       databasemodel.sql script. If our script is not ***exactly*** the same as your databasemodel.sql, then (-5 points) because
       this means that you modified your databasemodel.sql directly, and any update in this file must be done first in your EER
       model, and then forward engineering again.
     
     * If your databasemodel.sql is missing the DROP, CREATE and USE database SQL statements then (-3 points)

     * If your database is named "mydb" which is the default name provided by MySQLWorkbench then (-1 point)

     * For each table in your databasemodel.sql that doesn't have at least ***three attributes*** then (-0.2 points)
       
     * For each associative entitity (or any other table for that matter) that have only have PKs and FKs attributes (-0.2 points) because from the perpective of
       the final user, tables need to create knowledge from the data they provide. A table must have meaningfull attributes apart from their PKs and FKs

   * Populating Database:

     * If inserts.sql throws errors then (-5 points) independently of the work done in this file. If we can't run your file
       then we can't populate your database. Make sure it runs without errors before you submit the assignment.

     * For each table in your inserts that is not populated by at least ***three entities*** then (-0.3 points)

     * For each INSERT that is not using LEFT or RIGHT JOINS as seen in class then (-0.5 points). 
   

Good luck, everyone!
   
